===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
3013
A UAV-Aided Digital Twin Framework for IoT
Networks With High Accuracy and Synchronization
Ghofran Khalaf , May Itani , Member, IEEE, and Sanaa Sharafeddine , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Digital Twin (DT) technology has emerged as a
promising link between the physical and virtual worlds, enabling
simulation, prediction, and real-time performance optimization in
different domains. In this work we develop a high-ﬁdelity digital
twin framework, focusing on synchronization and accuracy
between physical and digital systems to enhance data-driven
decision making. To achieve this, we deploy several stationary
UAVs in optimized locations to collect data from IoT devices,
which were used to monitor multiple physical entities and
perform computations to evaluate their status. We formulate a
mixed-integer non-convex program to maximize the total amount
of data collected from all IoT devices while ensuring a constrained
age of digital twin threshold and solve it using successive convex
approximation (SCA). To cope with realistic scenarios involving
unpredictable environments and large network sizes, we model
our problem as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), and propose
a deep reinforcement learning-based approach using a Twin
Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (TD3) to optimize
the uncrewed aerial vehicle positions and the sum rate. Finally,
we present different simulation results of the SCA and TD3 based
solutions together with two baseline approaches and evaluated
the sum rate in terms of IoT device count, AoDT threshold, task
arrival rate and UAVs’ computational capacity. In all simulation
results, the proposed TD3-based approach consistently proved to
be superior as compared to the baseline solutions.
Index Terms—Age of information, digital twin, high accuracy
and synchronization, age of digital twin, uncrewed aerial vehicles,
multiple-sensor monitoring.
I. INTRODUCTION
W
ITH the emerging 5G networks that ensure instanta-
neous connectivity to billions of Internet of Things
devices, the demand for accurate and fast data updates is
increasing to facilitate remote monitoring and control [1], [2].
This presents signiﬁcant challenges for network operators in
providing dynamic adaptation to customer needs. To overcome
these challenges, many industries are using digital twins to
Received 18 November 2025; revised 17 February 2026; accepted 27 Febru-
ary 2026. Date of publication 3 March 2026; date of current version 10 March
2026. This work was supported by the University Research Board at the
American University of Beirut (AUB) under Grant 104632. The associate
editor coordinating the review of this article and approving it for publication
was M. F. Zhani. (Corresponding author: Sanaa Sharafeddine.)
Ghofran Khalaf is with the Department of Computer Science, American
University of Beirut, Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon.
May Itani is with the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science,
Beirut Arab University, Beirut 1107 2809, Lebanon.
Sanaa Sharafeddine is with the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, American University of Beirut, Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon
(e-mail: ss30@aub.edu.lb).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TNSM.2026.3670040
improve operational efﬁciency and build accurate maintenance
strategies. A recent study estimates that 85% of IoT indus-
tries are expected to incorporate digital twinning in the near
future [3].
A digital twin is a virtual representation of a physical
system, process, or object designed to accurately reﬂect the
physical entity through synchronization and real-time data
updates. It uses simulation, machine learning, and reasoning
to make better decisions [4], [5]. Digital Twin platforms
provide networks with improved automation, resilience testing,
full life cycle operation, and infrastructure maintenance [5].
To build a high-ﬁdelity digital twin, various challenges are
involved. According to [5] and [6], the main challenges include
data acquisition and processing, high-ﬁdelity modeling, and
real-time communication between virtual and real twins. The
precision and efﬁciency of data collection signiﬁcantly affect
the quality of the DT model [7]. Since a large amount of
real-time data is required to establish a high-ﬁdelity digital
twin [5], IoT devices often fail to deliver their real-time
measurements to the base station due to limited transmit power
and processing capacity. Utilizing uncrewed aerial vehicles
(UAVs) to collect and process data from IoT devices offers
a reliable and affordable wireless connectivity solution and is
widely adopted in similar problem setup [8], [9], [10], [11].
The large amount of real-time data enforces adequate
synchronization and accuracy between the physical and dig-
ital twins. On one hand, synchronization can be improved
by reducing the Age of Digital Twin (AoDT) metric. This
synchronization metric measures the time gap between the
current status of the monitored physical entity and its digital
counterpart. AoDT was ﬁrst introduced in [12] and is based
on the AoI, which reﬂects information freshness and was
ﬁrst introduced in 2010 [13]. Thus, AoDT measures status
freshness to determine whether the digital twin accurately
mirrors the current condition of a given physical entity. On
the other hand, a higher level of accuracy can be achieved
by maximizing the amount of data collected. However, jointly
enhancing synchronization and accuracy introduces a trade-
off since we are considering several IoT devices monitoring
different physical processes. While attempting to improve
the accuracy of one physical entity by collecting more data,
the synchronization of another physical entity is negatively
impacted, resulting in a tradeoff between the accuracy and
synchronization among the digital twins of the various physical
entities. Thus, higher accuracy increases AoDT, leading to a
lack of synchronization between the digital and physical twins.
To this end, this work develops a digital twin framework that
1932-4537 © 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and
similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
3014
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
optimizes a DT-aided IoT network by balancing accuracy and
synchronization.
We consider a system composed of several physical entities,
each monitored by a group of IoT devices. UAVs are deployed
to collect measurements from all IoT devices and process them
to determine the status of the physical entities in the system.
Our work utilizes the novel AoDT metric, which accounts
for both upload and processing of sensitive data through
employment of UAVs as edge devices to provide computing
services and efﬁcient data collection and transmission to the
base station. We derive a closed-form expression for the
AoDT metric to reﬂect the status freshness of the digital twin.
We then formulate a mixed-integer non-convex optimization
problem to maximize DT accuracy while maintaining syn-
chronization and solve the problem using successive convex
approximations (SCA). We propose a more efﬁcient and
scalable solution using reinforcement learning, speciﬁcally
twin delayed deep deterministic policy gradient (TD3) solution
approach. Extensive simulations validate the effectiveness of
the SCA-based and TD3-based approaches. To the best of our
knowledge, no research work has tackled a similar problem
with IoT devices sending fresh status updates to the digital
twin platform to build a highly synchronized and accurate
digital twin, with each physical entity being monitored by
multiple IoT devices.
The paper is organized as follows. We start by surveying
recent relevant literature in Section II and highlight our
contributions. Section III presents the system model and its
key components. Section IV formulates the problem as a
mixed integer non-convex program, and Section V proposes
the convex optimization solution approach while Section VI
proposes the TD3 model solution approach. Simulation results
and analysis are provided in Section VII. Finally, Section VIII
concludes the work and presents interesting future directions.
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
To build a high-ﬁdelity digital twin, various challenges are
involved. According to [5] and [6], the main challenges include
data acquisition and processing, high-ﬁdelity modeling, and
real-time communication between virtual and real twins.
The precision and efﬁciency of data collection signiﬁcantly
affect the quality of the DT model [7]. In this section, we
survey selected related literature that utilizes mobile edge
computing in delay sensitive IoT applications to empower
the DT technology. Authors in [12] developed a high-ﬁdelity
digital twin model where its consistency with the physical
system is measured through accuracy and synchronization.
They deployed a UAV that follows an optimized trajectory to
collect data from multiple industrial IoT devices. The data was
then processed through several virtual machines equipped in
the UAV to determine the status of physical entities, which
was subsequently uploaded to the digital twin running at
the base station. Authors introduced the age of digital twin
(AoDT) metric to represent the synchronization gap between
the actual status of a physical entity and its digital replica.
The main aim was to develop a DT model consistent with
the physical system, relying on the amount of data collected
and on AoDT as crucial metrics to enhance DT accuracy
and synchronization. Authors only utilized one UAV and did
not consider any practical scenario of equipping devices with
multiple sensors. Moreover authors did not address scalability
or complex industrial IoT environments. In [14], authors aim
to optimize the trajectories of multiple UAVs serving several
IIoT devices in an industrial urban ﬁeld using DT technology.
The main aim of the study is to minimize the total energy
consumption and improve the efﬁciency of UAVs in terms of
latency and computation. Several IIoTs devices with different
tasks; classiﬁed as delay sensitive and computational sensitive
tasks, are deployed in different subareas. Each IIoT device
sends its requirement state data via the UAV to the DT server,
which updates the global state of the system and assigns UAVs
to perform these tasks. The authors proposed dueling deep
Q-networks with prioritized experience replay to optimize
trajectory planning and balance latency, computation, and
energy. Li et al. in [15] studied the problem of synchronizing
the digital twin with its physical counterpart using an energy-
constrained UAV that collects data from sensors deployed in
a remote region. Each sensor is powered by a solar panel and
its generated data is energy constrained. Authors assume that
the digital twin is updated in discretized time slots. Given that
the DTs of sensors are stored in cloudlets in a mobile edge
computing network, authors introduced an update budget that
reﬂects how much DT states of a speciﬁc group of sensors
are synchronized with their physical counterparts at each time
slot. The aim is to minimize the average DT state staleness
of all objects given an energy-limited UAV. However in both
problems ([14] and [15]), authors assumed that each device
is equipped with one sensor, age of information metric was
not utilized for freshness and authors only considered one
traveling UAV. Moreover, in [15], authors considered partial
DT object synchronization per round instead of maximizing
data collected from all devices for optimum accuracy with
synchronization. Authors in [16] studied the problem of digital
twin placement for improving user satisfaction based on min-
imum user query service delays that depends on digital twin
data freshness which, in turn, relies on the age of information.
They proposed two different problem scenarios: static digital
twin placement and dynamic digital twin placement based
on launching new digital twins periodically. Both scenarios
involved deploying digital twins in cloudlets to maximize user
satisfaction based on information freshness and subject to
computational capacity constraints. In [17], authors proposed a
digital twin edge network where two types of real-time tasks
in digital twin applications are considered: update tasks for
periodic synchronization with the digital twin, and inference
tasks for testing the response of a physical system by sim-
ulating the corresponding digital twin by users. The system
consisted of an edge server with a set of physical systems, and
multiple users. For each physical system, the corresponding
cyber twin is implemented in the edge server to provide DT
applications. Update tasks are generated by data collected from
the physical systems while inference tasks are requested by
users on demand. Authors formulated an optimization problem
to maximize digital twin freshness ratio. Authors proposed a
DT task scheduler that prioritizes update tasks based on the
number of corresponding inference tasks. Both studies ([16],
[17]) utilized age of information metric for DT freshness and
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3015
TABLE I
RELATED WORK COMPARISON
were conducted without deploying any UAVs. Authors in [16]
utilized mobile cloud servers for edge computing and only
one digital twin of a randomly chosen object was selected to
minimize its age at a time, while authors in [17] considered
DT update tasks as a part of the optimization process.
To develop practical and scalable solutions, reserach efforts
are being done based on reinforcement learning techniques
mainly in dynamic environments for UAV-assisted DT-driven
frameworks [18], [19], [20], [21], [22]. For example, in [18]
a new scalable multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL)
based algorithm is adopted to improve effectiveness and adapt-
ability in a DT-driven framework for multi-UAV cooperative
target search applications. Authors in [19] and [20] utilized
deep Q-learning in a digital-twin (DT)-assisted task assign-
ment framework in a multi-UAV system to improve dynamic
task assignment and resource utilization, and to improve the
overall network performance respectively. In [21] authors
employed a deep reinforcement learning based synchronization
(DRLS) algorithm to generate synchronization actions with
low-time complexity in a DT-synchronization framework to
minimize the synchronization latency in UAV assisted edge
computing environments, while authors in [22] employed
federated reinforcement learning to create a generalized RL
model to optimize computation ofﬂoading and resource allo-
cation in UAV-assisted mobile edge computing (MEC). Table I
summarizes recent relevant literature to better highlight the
research gap.
In light of the above-surveyed literature, no existing research
work, to the best of our knowledge, has jointly optimized
accuracy and synchronization neither derived a closed formula
for DT synchronization in a multi-UAV-aided DT for an
IoT network where multiple sensors are monitoring a single
physical process. The main contributions of this work are as
follows:
1) We propose a digital twin framework that builds a
digital twin with high accuracy and synchronization
with the physical system in an IoT network. Every
physical entity of the physical system is monitored by a
group of IoT devices that upload their measurements to
multiple UAVs optimally positioned. The UAVs process
all collected measurements to determine the status of the
monitored physical entities and deliver this information
to the digital twin running at the base station for system
monitoring and management.
2) We derive a closed form expression for the novel AoDT
metric introduced in [12] and used it to evaluate the
synchronization difference between the physical system
and its digital counterpart. This will guarantee tackling
the challenge of DT real-time synchronization stated
earlier.
3) We mathematically formulate the problem as a mixed
integer non-convex program to maximize the accuracy
of the digital twin by optimizing the amount of collected
data while ensuring a target synchronization degree with
the physical system.
4) We implement an iterative optimization approach to
determine the optimized placement scheme for UAVs
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
3016
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
while maximizing data collection and ensuring freshness
using successive convex approximations.
5) We develop a reinforcement learning approach based
on TD3 to address uncertainty in the problem and
handle realistic scenarios with large scale environments
by leveraging RL techniques that provide powerful capa-
bilities for making real-time decisions.
6) We present extensive simulation results to evaluate the
performance of our proposed solution and demonstrate
its effectiveness to build a highly synchronized and
accurate digital twin.
III. SYSTEM MODEL
We consider a system such as an industrial facility, where
several IoT devices are monitoring multiple physical processes
with a digital twin running at a nearby base station located
at (xBS, yBS, zBS). A set of I IoT devices, denoted by
I = {1, 2, . . . , I}, is deployed at ground level at {xi, yi, 0}
for monitoring various aspects of the physical environment.
IoT devices are supposed to collect real-time measurements,
such as temperature, pressure, humidity, vibration, ﬂow rate,
and others, of the components of the system, named physical
entities. Due to their limited transmission power and lack of
processing capabilities, IoT devices deliver their readings to a
set of J stationary UAVs denoted by J = {1, 2, . . . , J}, and
that are optimally positioned at the coordinates (xj, yj, H),
∀j ∈J where H is the height UAVs are positioned. UAV
repositioning can be performed based on network demand
between mission intervals, allowing ﬂexibility when opera-
tional conditions permit. The UAVs are assumed to be fully
meshed with a high-speed link and they use their computa-
tional power to process the measurements and determine the
current status of the physical entities. Status updates of the
physical entities are then uploaded to the digital twin on the
BS in a way to ensure high synchronization with the physical
system. Fig. 1 illustrates this system model.
Depending on the size, structure, or functionality of each
physical entity, multiple IoT devices may be needed to capture
measurements from different angles or locations. Each IoT
device i generates tasks of size Si in bytes that are uploaded
to UAV j. However, if UAV j lacks sufﬁcient computational
resources to process a task, it forwards the task to another UAV
k for processing. UAVs are considered to operate in full duplex
mode, allowing them to receive and transmit simultaneously,
while using orthogonal channels to avoid self-interference.
Moreover, UAVs opt to use the most recent measurements
coming from IoTs to ensure that the resulting status reliably
mirrors the current status of the monitored physical entity.
This being said, a UAV discards old data once it obtains fresh
measurements from a respective IoT.
A. Communication Channel Model
Ground-to-air (G2A) communication between UAVs and
ground IoT devices is based on a probabilistic path loss model
that accounts for line-of-sight (LoS) and non-line-of-sight
(NLoS) components. Accordingly, we employ the following
LoS and NLoS channel models between IoT device i and UAV
j [23]:
LLoS
i,j
= JF S + 20 log di,j + ηLoS,
(1)
Fig. 1. System model.
and
LNLoS
i,j
= JF S + 20 log di,j + ηNLoS,
(2)
where JF S = 20 log fc + 20 log 4π
c , the variable fc signiﬁes
the system’s carrier frequency, and c is the speed of light’s
constant. The parameters ηLoS and ηNLoS are additional
attenuation factors speciﬁc to the line-of-sight (LoS) and
non-line-of-sight (NLoS) link environments, respectively. di,j
denotes the Euclidean distance between device i and UAV j
is represented by:
di,j =
q
(xi −xj)2 + (yi −yj)2 + H2.
(3)
In addition, the probability of a LoS communication link,
denoted as P LoS
i,j
, between a UAV j an IoT i device is
represented as:
P LoS
i,j
=
1
1 + a · exp

−b ·

arcsin

zj
di,j

−a

(4)
where a and b are environment parameters. As a result, the
average path loss is expressed to be:
Lavg
i,j = P LoS
i,j
LLoS
ij
+ (1 −P LoS
i,j
)LNLoS
i,j
(5)
Based on the above, the achieved uplink rate from IoT i to
UAV j is computed as [23]:
ri,j = Bij log2

1 + pi · 10
−Lavg
i,j
10
· 1
σ2

(6)
where Bij represents the channel bandwidth that is distributed
among the devices based on their needs, pi is the power level
of IoT device i, and σ2 is the Gaussian white noise power.
For simplicity, we assume a high-speed LoS link between
UAVs. Therefore, the elapsed time to upload data from the
associated UAV j with the IoT device i to another UAV k is
considered constant and equal to Tu2u. The UAVs are assumed
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3017
to communicate with the base station via high capacity fron-
thaul links (such as free space optics (FSO) or millimeter-wave
(mmWave) links) with high communication speed and low
latency [27], [28]. According to related literature [29], [30],
the download time of the computed results from the UAV to
the BS can be neglected, since the processed data is relatively
small.
B. Data Generation and Computing Models
During monitoring a physical entity, each IoT device i
generates data based on a Poisson distribution [31], [32] with
an average rate λi. The data generated from multiple IoT
devices is transferred to UAV j for potential processing.
Since each associated IoT device generates its tasks accord-
ing to a Poisson process with rate λi, and assuming a constant
propagation delay from the IoT device i to UAV j, the
aggregated workload from a set Nj of IoT devices on UAV j
can also be modeled as a Poisson process with rate P
k∈Nj λk.
We assume that the service times at UAV j are independent
and identically distributed exponential random variables, with
an average service time of
1
µj , where µj resembles the average
service rate of the UAV j. The service rate µj, measured in
requests per second, can be expressed as:
µj = fj
L
(7)
where fj is the processing capacity of UAV j in cycles per
second, and L is the average task size in cycles. Hence, we
model each UAV j as an M / M / 1 queueing system with
an arrival rate λtotal,j = P
k∈Nj λk and a service rate µj
[33], [34].
We deﬁne the offered load ρi from IoT device i to the
processing UAV j by:
ρi = λi
µj
(8)
Thus, the total offered load at UAV j where the tasks from a
set of Nj IoT devices are processed is:
ρtotal,j = λtotal,j
µj
=
X
k∈Nj
λk
µj
(9)
C. Modeling Quality of Service in a Digital Twin
Many research is emerging to deﬁne methods and met-
rics for evaluating digital twin performance. Authors in [35]
illustrated that ensuring real-time synchronization between
a DT and its physical counterpart as well as maintaining
high accuracy in a DT is crucial for effective DT adoption
in different applications. Authors in [36] introduced digital
twin entanglement metric that represents to which extent the
digital and physical systems’ synchronization process fulﬁlls
the needs of a speciﬁc application. Authors took into account
the freshness of the collected data and the ratio of collected
to total data. This ratio reﬂects the DT accuracy. Moreover,
authors in [37] illustrated that DT freshness may be deﬁned
using the age of information concept as the elapsed time after
a DT has been updated. However, they did not derive any
closed formula to model this metric. DT freshness can be
best represented through a novel metric introduced in [12] as
age of digital twin metric (AoDT) that takes into account: (i)
time of data upload from sensors to edge device; (ii) time of
data processing to reﬂect device status; and (iii) time of data
download to BS for DT updates. Authors in [12] considered a
simple scenario where one IoT monitors one physical process.
They proposed a problem to optimize DT accuracy subject to
AoDT constraints. However; in practice, multiple IoT devices
might monitor the same physical entity. In this work, we
formulate a closed form expression to model age of digital
twin in such a practical scenario.
The age of information (AoI) is a destination-centric mea-
sure for information freshness that counts the time that has
passed since the last fresh update was generated at the source.
In this study, we apply the concept of AoI to the setting of
digital twins, where we need to express the freshness of the
physical entity’s status through the responsive DT. As a result,
we utilize the Age of Digital Twin (AoDT) metric introduced
in [12] and deﬁned as the elapsed time between data generation
and the status update received by the BS.
The calculation of the AoDT for each monitored process
accounts for different phases after data collection, namely:
• Upload phase: The data is transmitted to the associated
UAV through the wireless channel for processing, and
then forwarded from the associated UAV to another one
when the ﬁrst UAV lacks computation resources.
• Processing phase: The uploaded data enters the compu-
tation queue at the UAV and is then processed to obtain
results.
• Download phase: The data is processed from the UAV to
the BS via the LoS channel to update the DT’s status.
We deﬁne the instantaneous AoDT at time t for the ith IoT
device as follows:
ζi(t) = t −ui(t)
(10)
where ui(t) is the instant generation of the last update of the
DT from IoT i. Figure. 2 illustrates an example of the evolution
of the AoDT ζ(t) for IoT device i over time t. Without loss
of generality, suppose we start monitoring at time t = 0, when
the computation queue is empty and the age is ζ(0). In the
absence of updates, the AoDT for the DT corresponding to
the source i climbs linearly with time and is reset to a lower
value when an update is received.
Update l for IoT device i, generated at time tg
l , is uploaded
to the associated UAV j and then to another UAV k if the UAV
j lacks computation resources. We denote by tu
l the upload
time. As a result, we can express the upload duration Xl =
tu
l −tg
l of task l for IoT device i as follows:
Xl =











Si
rij
if the task lis processed
by the associated UAVj
Si
rij
+ Tu2u
otherwise
(11)
where Si represents the generated task size in bytes from IoT
device i, and Tu2u is the required time to upload the generated
data of the device i from its associated UAV j to another one,
when j lacks sufﬁcient computation resources.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
3018
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
Fig. 2. Evolution of AoDT example.
Assuming stable radio conditions for each IoT device i with
tasks of the same size Si, the upload time Xl is constant and
equal to Di for all l.
After the uploading phase, data is processed at tp
l , and
the result is received by the BS to update the status of the
corresponding DT at td
l . At td
l , the AoDT ζi(td
l ) is reset to
(td
l −tg
l ).
Regarding the download phase of the processed task l from
UAVs to the BS, the download duration is given by:
Zl = td
l −tp
l
(12)
Therefore, the evolution of the AoDT is mainly affected by
the processing phase since the time elapsed at other phases is
considered constant. Given that we have modeled every UAV
j as a M/M/1 system and inﬁnite buffer, we can select either
ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-serve (FCFS) or last-come, ﬁrst-serve (LCFS)
queuing discipline.
Noting that the FCFS queue paradigm allows new update
messages to be queued behind outdated messages issued
earlier, and that we want to transfer the most recent data from
IoT to reduce the AoDT, it is preferable to use the LCFS
queuing discipline. Considering LCFS, fresh information from
an IoT device preempts any previously queued update packets,
and the preempted data is deleted. Furthermore, based on the
performance evaluation in [38], the AoI values achieved using
the LCFS strategy outperformed those obtained under the
FCFS strategy. Hence, we will consider LCFS with preemption
in service (LCFS-S). When a new packet is uploaded, it
preempts the packets that are being served. We can show
from Fig. 2 after the third generated update task at time tg
3
is uploaded to the UAV at time tu
3, it preempts the previous
task in service to process recent data.
For the proposed system, multiple IoT devices monitor a
single physical process. Each device i ∈Nk, where Nk repre-
sents the set of devices monitoring the same process, generates
updates at a rate λi following a Poisson process. Updates are
transmitted directly to a UAV without an aggregator. Then,
the UAV processes each update and updates the state of the
corresponding Digital Twin (DT). Once an update is processed,
the Age of Digital Twin (AoDT) for the corresponding DT is
reset.
Since multiple IoT devices directly send updates to the UAV,
the min rate should be taken into consideration to wait for the
slowest update to be received, λNk is given as:
λNk = min
i∈Nk λi,
(13)
The Average Age of Information (AAoI) for a multiple-
source, single-server system with LCFS preemption in service
[38] is:
∆= 1
λ

1 + λ
µ

,
(14)
where λ is the total arrival rate and µ is the service rate.
For our system, the average arrival rate λNk replaces λ.
Hence, the average AoDT for a Digital Twin DTk monitoring
the physical process is:
∆k = DNk +
1
λNk

1 + λNk
µ

,
(15)
where DNk represents the maximum upload time for updates
from the devices in Nk and is given as:
DNk = max
i∈Nk Di,
(16)
where Di is the upload time for device i.
Substituting DNk into the AoDT expression, we obtain the
ﬁnal form of the average AoDT:
∆DTk = max
i∈Nk Di +
1
λNk

1 +
P
i∈Nk λi
µ

.
(17)
IV. PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this section, we formulate a non-convex optimization
problem (P) to maximize the DT accuracy. We consider the
scenario in which multiple IoT devices monitor a single phys-
ical entity. Each IoT device i ∈I is associated with a single
UAV j ∈J that receives uploaded tasks and processes them.
However, when the associated UAV has limited computational
capabilities, it will delegate the tasks to another UAV for
processing. We deﬁne two binary decision variables aij and
bij. The ﬁrst variable aij indicates whether IoT i is associated
with UAV j.
aij =
(
1
if IoT device iis associated with UAVj
0
otherwise
(18)
The second binary variable bij indicates whether the tasks of
IoT i are processed by UAV j.
bij =





1
if the tasks generated by IoT device i
are processed by UAVj
0
otherwise
(19)
Since multiple sensors are monitoring one process, we deﬁne
K groups or sets of IoT sensors where each set Nk is
monitoring a process as stated earlier.
We use δik to specify the set to which the IoT device
belongs.
δik =
(
1,
if IoT device iis assigned to a set k
0,
otherwise
The formulated problem (P) determines the optimized position
for each UAV j ∈J . Furthermore, (P) derives for each IoT
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3019
device i ∈I its associated UAV and the UAV responsible for
processing its tasks.
(P) : max
I
X
i=1
J
X
j=1
aijrij
(20)
s.t.
J
X
j=1
aij = 1,
∀i ∈Nk,
(21)
J
X
j=1
bk
ij = δik,
∀i ∈Nk, k ∈K,
(22)
δik.δnk.bk
ij = δik.δnk.bk
nj,
∀i, n ∈Nk, j ∈J , k ∈K,
(23)
fj
L −
K
X
i=k
I
X
i=1
bk
ijλi ≥0,
∀j ∈J ,
(24)
rij ≥aijRmin,
∀i ∈Nk, j ∈J ,
(25)
Bij ≤aij · M,
∀i ∈Nk, j ∈J , M →∞(26)
I
X
i=1
J
X
j=1
Bij ≤Bsys,
(27)
q
(xj −xl)2 + (yj −yl)2 + (zj −zl)2 ≥θ,
∀j, l ∈J ,
(28)
λNk ≤λi,
∀i ∈Nk,
(29)
vk ≤Tk,
∀k ∈K,
(30)
vk ≥
J
X
j=1
aij
Si
rij
+
1
λNk

1 +
P
i∈Nk λi
µ

+

1 −
J
X
j=1
aijbk
ij

· Tu2u
∀i ∈Nk, k ∈K,
(31)
Problem (P) optimizes data collection from IoT devices
by maximizing the sum rate while considering constraints
related to computation tasks, AoDT, available resources, and
overall system performance. The objective function (20) aims
to maximize the sum rate. Constraints (21) and (22) ensure
that each IoT device i is associated with a single UAV j
and that the tasks of each device i are being processed by
a single UAV j. Constraint (24) is crucial to maintaining a
stable queuing system where we ensure that the rate at which
computational requests arrive is lower than the service rate
for each UAV. To guarantee a minimum quality of service
(QoS), constraint (25) ensures that the communication rate
between the IoT devices and the UAV is higher than the
target value. Constraint (26) ensures that the bandwidth is set
to zero if there is no association between IoT i and UAV
j. Constraint (27) ensures that the total uplink bandwidth of
the system does not exceed the available system bandwidth
of value Bsys. Constraint (28) mandates a minimum safety
distance θ between any two deployed UAVs. Constraints (30)
and (31) ensure that the average AoDT ∆k for IoT device
i remains below a predeﬁned threshold TK to maintain the
freshness of data updates.
Algorithm 1 SCA-Based Solution of Problem P
Input: I, J , positions of IoT devices, position of the base
station, error tolerance
Initialization: Set initial position for UAVs, bandwidth, and
iteration number n
while |ObjP(n) −ObjP(n −1)| ≤ϵ do
Solve the convex problem P to obtain optimal UAV
positions and system bandwidth
Update UAV positions
Update bandwidth value
Update sum rate matrix
Update n = n + 1
end while
Output: The optimal UAV positioning and the maximum
system bandwidth
V. OPTIMIZATION SOLUTION APPROACH
Problem (P) is a mixed integer non-convex optimization
problem. In this section, introduce a successive convex approx-
imation (SCA) approach to solve the problem and determine
the optimized positions of the UAVs in a way to maximize
the data collection rates under AoDT threshold to improve
both accuracy and synchronization of the DT. Constraint
25 is non-convex and constraints (3), (4), (5) are nonlin-
ear. These constraints are linearized using ﬁrst-order Taylor
approximations. Algorithm (1) presents the successive convex
approximations of (P).
We used the Matlab Mosek cvx solver, which applies a
primal-dual interior-point algorithm that simultaneously solves
the primal and dual problems to achieve good accuracy. This
solver iteratively solves continuous convex optimization prob-
lems by moving within the feasible region while maximizing
the objective function. To keep variables within the feasible
region, interior-point methods work by using Newton’s method
on “barrier” functions. Also, Mosek’s primal-dual interior-
point method ensures fast convergence for the high complexity
of the problem involving UAV placement and data collec-
tion. Thus, the worst-case complexity of this problem can
be roughly estimated as C ∼
√
number of variables because
the complexity depends on the number of Newton steps, in
which the latter is inﬂuenced by the number of variables of
the optimization problem and the iterations needed for the
algorithm to converge given an initial start as stated in [12].
VI. TWIN DELAYED DEEP DETERMINISTIC POLICY
GRADIENT-BASED SOLUTION APPROACH
In UAV-assisted IoT networks with DT functionality, real-
time decision-making and dynamic optimization are crucial
in maximizing data collection efﬁciency while maintaining
AoDT constraints. Owing to the complexity of the optimiza-
tion problem due to its nonconvex constraints and to cope
with uncertainty and to ensure real time adaptability especially
in dynamic environments, we resort to deep reinforcement
learning (DRL) as a viable solution approach [23].
The standard DDPG algorithm occasionally encounters
instability and hyperparameter sensitivity, due to Q-value
overestimation, and hence produces a non-optimal or divergent
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
3020
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
policy in highly dynamic and continuous decision-making
scenarios. Therefore, in our work, we adopt the TD3 algo-
rithm, an off-policy actor-critic method that extends the DDPG
framework to continuous action spaces. It learns a deter-
ministic policy using two Q-value critics to estimate the
optimal policy value while addressing value-function overes-
timation bias. This is achieved through three key techniques:
clipped Double Q-learning, delayed policy updates, and tar-
get policy smoothing. The most crucial one is the clipped
Double Q-Learning technique, which trains two independent
Q-networks in parallel and uses the lower estimate as the
target value to enhance stability and robustness. The thing
that distinguishes TD3 from conventional DDPG algorithms
and addresses their limitations in overestimation bias and
training instability [39], [40]. Combining the three key ideas
of TD3, our approach mitigates these problems, achieving
stable training dynamics and improved performance. Based on
these improvements, the algorithm’s design aligns with our
research objectives, enabling dynamic optimization of UAV
positioning and resource allocation, while actively resorting
to the speciﬁed system constraints, mainly AoDT constraints,
and channel conditions.
A. MDP Formulation
We formulate the problem as an MDP problem that is
formally deﬁned by the tuple
 S, A, R, P, γ), where
• S is the set of all states s ∈S,
• A is the set of all actions a ∈A,
• R(s, a) denotes the immediate reward obtained by taking
action a in state s
• P is the probability of shifting from one state to another
given an action
• γ is the discount factor that deﬁnes the action to take in
each state
A DRL approach based on the TD3 algorithm is proposed
for ﬁnding the policy that optimizes UAV positioning, IoT-
to-UAV assignment, and edge-computation scheduling under
unknown activation patterns. We customize TD3 to our frame-
work by redeﬁning the state S, action A, and reward R
functions as follows:
• State: The state space of our TD3-based reinforcement
learning algorithm is deﬁned by the initial positions
of UAVs and IoT devices, task arrival rate, allocated
bandwidth for the whole system, current load on UAV j,
average AoDT, and communication channel conditions.
Thus, the state at time step t is represented as:
S(t) =
(xj(t), yj(t), H), (xi, yi), ∆DT (t),
Bsys(t), Lj(t), λi(t)

(32)
• Action: The action space at each time step t involves the
continuous adjustment of UAV positions to maximize the
sum rate, while having the best association, computation
assignments, and bandwidth allocation between IoTs and
UAVs. We deﬁne our continuous action space as:
A(t) = {(∆xj(t), ∆yj(t)), aij(t), bij(t), Bij(t)}
(33)
where (∆xj(t), ∆yj(t)) represents positional adjust-
ments for each UAV j at a ﬁxed height.
• Reward: The reward function r(t) simultaneously max-
imizes the sum rate collected by UAVs with penalties
for violating AoDT constraints, minimum safety distance
between any two UAVs, and any other previously deﬁned
constraints. The reward at time step t is deﬁned as:
r(t)=α
X
i,j
aij(t) rij(t) −β
X
k
max(0, ∆DTk(t) −Tk)
−γPdist(t) −δVviol(t)
(34)
where P
i,j aij(t)·rij(t) represents the total sum rate col-
lected by UAVs at time t, while P
k max(0, ∆DTk(t) −
Tk) captures the AoDT violation penalties, where Tk is
the AoDT threshold. Pdist(t) penalizes any pair of UAVs
closer than θ, and Vviol(t) accounts for any breach of
QoS, CPU, or bandwidth restriction. In our implemen-
tation, the weighting coefﬁcients α, β, γ and δ are set
through scaling in which the sum rate is normalized and
the AoDT penalty is given the highest weight to reﬂect
its critical impact on system performance. This ensures
that our research objectives focus on optimizing UAV
positions and resource allocation dynamically in response
to varying IoT demands, channel conditions, and AoDT
requirements.
Fig. 3 presents our system architecture, divided into three
interconnected components. On the left, the RL Module
includes the actor-critic pair: the actor proposes continuous
control commands (UAV motion deltas, IoT-UAV associations
and bandwidth allocations) which are evaluated by two critic
networks. Then, the experience tuples are stored in a replay
buffer and used, along with clipped target actions from slowly
updated target networks, to perform off-policy learning. In
the middle, the digital model simulates the environment state,
including UAV and IoT locations, task arrival rates, allocated
resources and resulting communication metrics, and computes
the scalar reward by aggregating throughput, AoDT penalties,
distance penalties, and constraint violations. Finally, on the
right, the physical entities depict the UAV ﬂeet and IoT devices
executing the digital model’s commands and feeding back
sensor data, thus completing the cycle from perception to
action.
B. RL Algorithm
In this subsection, we delineate our TD3-based solution
presented in Algorithm 2 to optimize UAV placement and task
ofﬂoading under AoDT constraints in a continuously evolving
environment. We train a TD3 agent where at each time step
t the agent observes a high-dimensional state st (including
UAV/IoT positions, group assignments, loads, AoDT values,
and bandwidths) and selects a continuous action at (UAV
positioning plus IoT-to-UAV association and processing logits
with added exploration noise). The environment parses at,
updates UAV positions, recomputes bandwidth, data rates,
and AoDT penalties, and returns a scalar reward rt that
balances normalized throughput against penalties for AoDT
threshold violations, inter-UAV proximity breaches, and other
constraint violations. Each transition (st, at, rt, st+1) is stored
in a replay buffer. On every step, both critic networks are
updated via Bellman backups using clipped Double Q targets,
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3021
Fig. 3. TD3 solution framework.
TABLE II
SIMULATION PARAMETERS
and once every d steps the actor network and all target net-
works are softly updated. This iterative process continues until
the policy converges, yielding a trained TD3 agent capable
of dynamically optimizing UAV deployment strategies under
resource and freshness constraints in digital twin-enhanced
aerial computing networks. Regarding complexity, the com-
putational complexity of the TD3 algorithm depends on its
actor and critic networks. Assuming m denotes the number of
parameters in each critic network, and n denotes the number
of parameters in the actor network, B the mini-batch size, and
T the total number of training steps, then the overall training
complexity of TD3 scales as O
 T
 mB + nB
d

. Therefore,
TD3 has linear time complexity in the number of training steps
and linear memory complexity in the size of stored transitions.
VII. SIMULATION RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE
ANALYSIS
In this section, we evaluate the proposed solution approach
formulated above. We consider an industrial ﬁeld of 500 ×
500 m2 where ten IoT devices are randomly deployed, with
every ﬁve devices monitoring one process. We consider the
Fig. 4. Convergence of the TD-3 solution approach.
system parameters as shown in Table II unless otherwise
stated. We present different simulation results of the TD3-
based solution compared to the SCA-based solution and two
baseline approaches, k-means and random placement of UAVs
as an initialization step. The k-means positioning approach
determines UAV locations by minimizing the sum of distances
between the IoT devices and their cluster centroids where the
UAV is supposed to be positioned. In contrast, the random
deployment method assigns UAV positions without any spe-
ciﬁc strategy, disregarding the locations of IoT devices or any
optimization concerns.
For simulation, we used DELL laptop 13th Gen Intel(R)
Core(TM) i7-1355U, an x64-based processor, and a CPU core
running at 2.06 GHz with 16 GB RAM. Note that each data
point in the ﬁgures represents the average of 20 different
random runs. In Figure 4, we demonstrate the convergence
characteristic of the proposed TD3-based solution. The ﬁgure
shows that the learning curve for cumulative reward increases
as the agent starts to explore the environment and change
the position of the UAVs based on the penalties imposed on
AoDT and the task arrival rates. The curve starts to stabilize
upon further training, which proves that the TD3 agent has
learned the best policy on how to balance UAV trajectory and
bandwidth allocation while satisfying the AoDT constraint.
The agent reaches a stable behavior after approximately 7000
steps. This convergence curve demonstrates a high degree of
the TD3 agent’s generalization ability in the Digital Twin
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
3022
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
Algorithm 2 TD3-Based Solution
Require: Environment E ←UAVAoDTEnv(Nu, Ni, area, K)
Actor network µφ, critics Qθ1(s, a), Qθ2(s, a) and targets
µφ′(s), Qθ′
1(s, a), Qθ′
2(s, a)
Replay buffer D, noise scale σ, policy delay d, discount
γ, soft-update rate τ, total steps T
Initialize φ, θ1, θ2 and set φ′ ←φ, θ′
1 ←θ1, θ′
2 ←θ2
Initialize replay buffer D ←∅
for t = 1toT do
Select action at = µφ(st) + ϵ, with noise ϵ ∼N(0, σ)
Execute action at and observe reward rt+1 and next
state st+1:
-parse at into movement deltas, association logits, pro-
cessing logits
-update UAV positions: ∆x, ∆y × 10, clip to [0, area]
- aij ←normalize association(associate logits)
- bij ←normalize processing(process logits)
-update bandwidth,
calculate rates and
loads, calculate AoDT
-compute sum rate, AoDT penalty, dist penalty, violations
-compute reward r = sum rate
Rmax −10 PAoDT−5 Pdist−5 Vviol
-st+1 ←E.get obs()
Store (st, at, rt+1, st+1) in replay buffer D
if enough samples in replay buffer D & it’s time to
update then
Sample minibatch {(si, ai, ri, si+1)}N
i=1 from D
Compute target actions with noise:
a′
i+1 = µφ′(si+1) + ϵ′, with ϵ′ ∼clip(N(0, σ′), −c, c)
Compute target Q-value:
yi = ri + γ minj=1,2 Qθ′
j(si+1, a′
i+1)
Update each critic
θj ←θj −η ∇θj
1
N
P
i

Qθj(si, ai) −yi
2
if t mod d = 0 then
Update actor:
φ ←φ + η ∇φ 1
N
P
i Qθ1(si, µφ(si))
Soft-update targets:
for j ∈{1, 2} do
θ′
j ←τ θj + (1 −τ) θ′
j
end for
φ′ ←τ φ + (1 −τ) φ′
end if
end if
s ←st+1
end for
environment, as it can identify and execute accurately the
movements and ofﬂoading actions that lead to long-term
reward optimization when the synchronization and resource
constraints are applied.
In Fig. 5, we demonstrate the scalability property of the
proposed TD3-based solution as compared to SCA-based
approach. For larger network sizes, the SCA-based solution
fails to give results in reasonable time, exceeding two hours
with 30 IoT devices. As we increase the number of devices,
the TD3-based solution continues to provide highly optimized
solutions within few minutes.
Fig. 5. Peformance of TD3-based solution versus SCA-based solution.
Fig. 6. Sum rate vs. number of UAVs, where I = 10.
Fig. 6 shows the relationship between the number of
deployed UAVs and the sum rate. The sum rate improves
across all four approaches as more UAVs are deployed
due to enhanced resource utilization and spatial coverage,
enabling efﬁcient data collection to ensure fresh status updates
for the DT. SCA-based approach consistently outperforms
all other approaches, achieving the highest sum rate of
approximately 8.8 Mbps with the deployment of ﬁve UAVs,
compared to 7 Mbps for TD3-based placement, 5.6 Mbps
for k-means placement, and 3.4 Mbps for random placement.
These results illustrate that SCA-based approach achieves the
best performance, however, at the expense of running time
as demonstrated in the earlier ﬁgure. TD3-based solution
achieves highly optimized results notably exceeding the two
baseline approaches. It ensures timely updates, improving
synchronization for the digital twin, which, in turn, enhances
data freshness and accuracy of the digital model.
Increasing the number of IoT devices, Fig 7 shows an
increase in the sum rate for a ﬁxed number of deployed
UAVs (three), across all placement strategies. This reﬂects
the increased data generation effect and improved utilization
of network resources for parallel and efﬁcient data collec-
tion by UAVs. The SCA-based solution approach achieved
a maximum sum rate exceeding approximately 14 Mbps for
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3023
Fig. 7. Sum rate in terms of IoT device count where J = 3.
Fig. 8. Sum rate vs. task arrival rate, with I = 10 and J = 3.
32 devices, followed by the TD3-based solution that remains
superior to the baseline approaches. TD3 solution achieved
11.6 Mbps for 32 devices, while the two baseline approaches
achieved 7.8 Mbps, and 5.2 Mbps, respectively. This consid-
erable performance gap underscores the effectiveness of our
proposed TD3 solution that maintains a highly synchronized
and accurate digital twin with low complexity.
In Fig 8 we increase the task arrival rate from 1 to 3.5
tasks per second and the achieved sum rate improves across
all UAV placement methods. However, TD3-based placement
shows consistent performance while increasing the arrival rate
and remains closest to the SCA-based solution. It achieves
approximately 7.3 Mbps, while K-means placement achieves
5.3 Mbps and random placement achieves 4.2 Mbps for a task
arrival rate of 3.5 per each device. These results demonstrate
how a higher arrival rate affects the total sum rate, as more
data packets are generated and transmitted.
To better demonstrate the impact of the AoDT metric on the
system performance, we compared the total sum rate in Fig. 9
while varying the AoDT threshold, starting from 0.8 seconds,
across different UAV placement strategies. All placement
approaches demonstrate an increase in sum rate with a more
relaxed AoDT threshold. The TD3-based solution was the
closest to the SCA-based results, reaching 6 Mbps compared
Fig. 9. Sum rate in terms of age of digital twin threshold, with I = 10 and
J = 3.
Fig. 10. Sum rate in terms of UAV’s computational capacity, with I = 10
and J = 3.
to k-means, and random UAV placement that achieved around
4.4 Mbps, and 3.2 Mbps, respectively, when the threshold
was relaxed to 3 seconds. The performance of the baseline
approaches highlights their limitations in improving system
efﬁciency due to poor spatial conﬁguration, resulting in the
under-utilization of available resources. In contrast, the TD3-
based placement signiﬁcantly enhances system efﬁciency and
network throughput, particularly as the AoDT threshold is
relaxed, allowing UAVs to allocate communication resources
more effectively and ﬂexibly.
The results in Figure 10 illustrate how the sum rate per-
formance is evaluated across different UAV computational
capacities for the different placement strategies. The ﬁgure
shows that increasing UAV computational capacity improves
the sum rate performance among all four plots, demonstrating
that enhanced processing capabilities enable faster handling of
computational tasks, which, in turn, optimizes communication
resources, allowing for additional data transmission tasks. The
SCA-based solution approach continues to yield the highest
sum rate, achieving approximately 7.5 Mbps at 250 MHz.
TD3-based placement achieved highly optimized sum rate of
6.7 Mbps, and the other two baseline approaches achieved a
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
3024
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, VOL. 23, 2026
Fig. 11.
Heterogeneous vs. uniform task arrival rate within a group, with
I = 10, J = 3.
sum rate lower than 4.5 Mbps for the same computational
capacity of 250 MHz.
To provide better understanding of the AoDT expression, we
explore the implications of heterogeneity in the task arrival
rates of devices. We consider a network with two groups
of devices, where each group is composed of ﬁve devices.
Fig. 11 compares different scenarios while varying the number
of deployed UAVs: one scenario, referred to as Uniform fast
λ, has a uniform and high arrival rate within each group
(λ1 = 2, λ2 = 3), another scenario, referred to as Uniform
slow λ, has a uniform and low arrival rate within each group
(λ1 = 0.8, λ2 = 1), and a third scenario, referred to as
Heterogeneous λ, has a varying arriving rate within each group
(0.8 ≤λ1, λ2 ≤3). The generated results show that the
performance when considering heterogeneous task arrival rates
within the same group (Heterogeneous λ) lies under that of
Uniform fast λ and above that of Uniform slow λ. In the case
of heterogeneous arrival rates, the age of the process requires
status updates from all IoT devices to be aggregated thus the
age will be limited by the IoT device with the slowest rate.
In summary, across all evaluated metrics (Figures 6-10),
the TD3-based reinforcement learning solution consistently
trails the SCA-based solution by a small margin providing
clear performance gains as compared to baseline approaches.
The TD3-based solution demonstrates that its learned RL
policy can generalize without re-optimization, and therefore
offers a scalable, operationally efﬁcient alternative to SCA-
based solution and is well-suited for larger and more dynamic
networks.
VIII. CONCLUSION
DT technology serves as a vital tool in real-time network
monitoring and performance optimization [41]. In this work,
we addressed the problem of developing a highly synchronized
and highly accurate digital twin of a physical system by
leveraging multiple UAVs positioned in optimized locations
to collect and process data from a ﬁeld of IoT devices used to
monitor multiple processes in the given system. Our problem
considered the practical case where a group of multiple IoT
devices monitors the same physical process. We formulated the
problem as a mixed-integer non-convex program to optimize
the total sum rate of IoT devices, resource allocation, and UAV
postioning, while ensuring a constrained AoDT that reﬂects the
digital twin data freshness. We solve the problem using succes-
sive convex approximations and propose a more efﬁcient and
scalable learning-based solution. To do so, we model the prob-
lem as MDP and solve it using twin delayed deep deterministic
policy gradient method. We conduct extensive simulations to
demonstrate the performance superiority of the TD3-based
approach as compared to baseline solutions while remaining
close to SCA results. Some interesting future research includes
adopting the AoDT metric in different industry verticals
including manufacturing, healthcare, aerospace, maritime and
smart city environments [35]. Another interesting direction
involves protecting the integrity of the digital twin against
malicious attacks through securing the IoT infrastructure with
block-chain-based authentication [42], [43], [44].
REFERENCES
[1]
W. Pan, Z. Deng, X. Wang, P. Zhou, and W. Wu, “Optimizing the age of
information for multi-source information update in Internet of Things,”
IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 904–917, Mar. 2022.
[2]
A. Hakiri, A. Gokhale, S. B. Yahia, and N. Mellouli, “A comprehensive
survey on digital twin for future networks and emerging Internet of
Things industry,” Comput. Netw., vol. 244, May 2024, Art. no. 110350.
[3]
Y. Xu, Y. Sun, X. Liu, and Y. Zheng, “A digital-twin-assisted
fault diagnosis using deep transfer learning,” IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 19990–19999, 2019.
[4]
Y. Wu, K. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, “Digital twin networks: A survey,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 18, pp. 13789–13804, Sep. 2021.
[5]
C. Zhou et al., “Network digital twin: Concepts and reference
architecture,” Version 8, Internet Eng. Task Force, Internet-Draft, Oct.
2024.
[6]
W. Hu, T. Zhang, X. Deng, Z. Liu, and J. Tan, “Digital twin: A state-of-
the-art review of its enabling technologies, applications and challenges,”
J. Intell. Manuf. Special Equip., vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1–34, Aug. 2021.
[7]
M. A. Hafeez, A. Procacci, A. Coussement, and A. Parente, “Challenges
and opportunities for the application of digital twins in hard-to-abate
industries: A review,” Resour., Conservation Recycling, vol. 209, Oct.
2024, Art. no. 107796.
[8]
O. A. Amodu, U. A. Bukar, R. A. Raja Mahmood, C. Jarray, and
M. Othman, “Age of information minimization in UAV-aided data
collection for WSN and IoT applications: A systematic review,” J. Netw.
Comput. Appl., vol. 216, Jul. 2023, Art. no. 103652.
[9]
C. M. W. Basnayaka, D. N. K. Jayakody, and M. Beko, “Freshness-in-
air: An AoI-inspired UAV-assisted wireless sensor networks,” ICT Exp.,
vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 1103–1109, Oct. 2024.
[10] X. Gao, X. Zhu, and L. Zhai, “AoI-sensitive data collection in
multi-UAV-assisted wireless sensor networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless
Commun., vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 5185–5197, Aug. 2023.
[11] X. Zhang, Z. Chang, T. H¨am¨al¨ainen, and G. Min, “AoI-energy tradeoff
for data collection in UAV-assisted wireless networks,” IEEE Trans.
Commun., vol. 72, no. 3, pp. 1849–1861, Mar. 2024.
[12] M. Itani and S. Sharafeddine, “Toward industrial metaverse: A high
ﬁdelity digital twin for IIoT with optimized age-accuracy tradeoff,”
IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 104242–104253, 2024.
[13] Y. Sun, I. Kadota, R. Talak, and E. Modiano, Age of Information: A New
Metric for Information Freshness. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Nature,
2022.
[14] L. Zhao et al., “Adaptive multi-UAV trajectory planning leveraging
digital twin technology for urban IIoT applications,” IEEE Trans. Netw.
Sci. Eng., vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 5349–5363, Nov. 2024.
[15] Y. Li, W. Liang, Z. Xu, W. Xu, and X. Jia, “Budget-constrained digital
twin synchronization and its application on ﬁdelity-aware queries in edge
computing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 165–182,
Jan. 2025.
[16] J. Li et al., “AoI-aware user service satisfaction enhancement in digital
twin-empowered edge computing,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 32,
no. 2, pp. 1677–1690, Apr. 2024.
[17] C. Kim, W. Saad, J. Han, T. Yu, K. Sakaguchi, and M. Jung, “Real-time
task scheduling with fairness in digital twin systems,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 7846–7862, Apr. 2025.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
KHALAF et al.: UAV-AIDED DT FRAMEWORK FOR IoT NETWORKS WITH HIGH ACCURACY AND SYNCHRONIZATION
3025
[18] P. Cao, L. Lei, G. Shen, S. Cai, X. Liu, and X. Liu, “AAV swarm
cooperative search based on scalable multiagent deep reinforcement
learning with digital twin-enabled sim-to-real transfer,” IEEE Trans.
Mobile Comput., vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 5173–5188, Jun. 2025.
[19] X. Tang et al., “Digital-twin-assisted task assignment in multi-UAV
systems: A deep reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Internet Things
J., vol. 10, no. 17, pp. 15362–15375, Sep. 2023.
[20] X. Wang, N. Cheng, L. Ma, Z. Yin, T. Luan, and N. Lu, “Imperfect
digital twin assisted low cost reinforcement training for multi-UAV
networks,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Metaverse Comput., Netw. Appl.
(MetaCom), Jun. 2023, pp. 365–369.
[21] J.
Tang
et
al.,
“UAV-assisted
digital-twin
synchronization
with
tiny-machine-learning-based
semantic
communications,”
IEEE
Internet
Things
J.,
vol. 11,
no. 17,
pp. 28437–28451,
Sep. 2024.
[22] P.
Consul,
I.
Budhiraja,
D.
Garg,
N.
Kumar,
R.
Singh,
and
A. S. Almogren, “A hybrid task ofﬂoading and resource alloca-
tion approach for digital twin-empowered UAV-assisted MEC network
using federated reinforcement learning for future wireless network,”
IEEE
Trans.
Consum.
Electron.,
vol. 70,
no. 1,
pp. 3120–3130,
Feb. 2024.
[23] H. Guo, X. Zhou, J. Wang, J. Liu, and A. Benslimane, “Intelligent
task ofﬂoading and resource allocation in digital twin based aerial
computing networks,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 41, no. 10,
pp. 3095–3110, Oct. 2023.
[24] Z. Kuang, H. Wang, J. Li, and F. Hou, “Utility-aware UAV deployment
and task ofﬂoading in multi-UAV edge computing networks,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 11, no. 8, pp. 14755–14770, Apr. 2024.
[25] G. Shen et al., “Deep reinforcement learning for ﬂocking motion of
multi-UAV systems: Learn from a digital twin,” IEEE Internet Things
J., vol. 9, no. 13, pp. 11141–11153, Jul. 2022.
[26] N. Cheng, X. Wang, Z. Li, Z. Yin, T. H. Luan, and X. Shen, “Toward
enhanced reinforcement learning-based resource management via digital
twin: Opportunities, applications, and challenges,” IEEE Netw., vol. 39,
no. 1, pp. 189–196, Jan. 2025.
[27] M. Samir, S. Sharafeddine, C. Assi, T. M. Nguyen, and A. Ghrayeb,
“Trajectory planning and resource allocation of multiple UAVs for
data delivery in vehicular networks,” IEEE Netw. Lett., vol. 1, no. 3,
pp. 107–110, Sep. 2019.
[28] J. Ji, K. Zhu, and L. Cai, “Trajectory and communication design
for cache- enabled UAVs in cellular networks: A deep reinforcement
learning approach,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 22, no. 10,
pp. 6190–6204, Oct. 2023.
[29] J. Bi, Z. Wang, H. Yuan, J. Zhang, and M. Zhou, “Cost-minimized
computation ofﬂoading and user association in hybrid cloud and edge
computing,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 11, no. 9, pp. 16672–16683,
May 2024.
[30] J. Huang, M. Zhang, J. Wan, Y. Chen, and N. Zhang, “Joint data
caching and computation ofﬂoading in UAV-assisted Internet of Vehicles
via federated deep reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 73, no. 11, pp. 17644–17656, Nov. 2024.
[31] S. He, K. Shi, C. Liu, B. Guo, J. Chen, and Z. Shi, “Collaborative sensing
in Internet of Things: A comprehensive survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1435–1474, 3rd Quart., 2022.
[32] D. E. Ruiz-Guirola, O. L. A. L´opez, and S. Montejo-S´anchez, “Modeling
IoT trafﬁc patterns: Insights from a statistical analysis of an mtc dataset,”
Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 272, May 2025, Art. no. 126726.
[33] H. A. Alameddine, S. Sharafeddine, S. Sebbah, S. Ayoubi, and C. Assi,
“Dynamic task ofﬂoading and scheduling for low-latency IoT services
in multi-access edge computing,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 37,
no. 3, pp. 668–682, Mar. 2019.
[34] A. Tout, S. Sharafeddine, and N. Abbas, “UAV-assisted multi-tier
computing framework for IoT networks,” Ad Hoc Netw., vol. 142, Apr.
2023, Art. no. 103119.
[35] T. H. Khan, C. Noh, and S. Han, “Correspondence measure: A review for
the digital twin standardization,” Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Technol., vol. 128,
nos. 5–6, pp. 1907–1927, Sep. 2023.
[36] P. Bellavista, N. Bicocchi, M. Fogli, C. Giannelli, M. Mamei, and
M. Picone, “ODTE: A metric for digital twin entanglement,” IEEE Open
J. Commun. Soc., vol. 5, pp. 2377–2390, 2024.
[37] C. Kim, M. Chehimi, M. Jung, and W. Saad, “Real-time task scheduling
for digital twin edge network,” in Proc. GLOBECOM - IEEE Global
Commun. Conf., Dec. 2023, pp. 7043–7048.
[38] R. D. Yates and S. K. Kaul, “The age of information: Real-time status
updating by multiple sources,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 65, no. 3,
pp. 1807–1827, Mar. 2019.
[39] H. Sun, Y. Zhou, J. Tang, Z. Kang, X. Wang, and T. Q. S. Quek,
“Average AoI-minimal trajectory design for UAV-assisted IoT data
collection system: A safe-TD3 approach,” IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett.,
vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 530–534, Feb. 2024.
[40] S. Fujimoto, H. van Hoof, and D. Meger, “Addressing function approx-
imation error in actor-critic methods,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn.,
2018, pp. 1587–1596. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/
v80/fujimoto18a.html
[41] B. Li, Y. Liu, L. Tan, H. Pan, and Y. Zhang, “Digital twin assisted task
ofﬂoading for aerial edge computing and networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 71, no. 10, pp. 10863–10877, Oct. 2022.
[42] S. B. Prathiba et al., “Fortifying federated learning in IIoT: Leveraging
blockchain and digital twin innovations for enhanced security and
resilience,” IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 68968–68980, 2024.
[43] S. D. Okegbile and I. P. Gambo, “Artiﬁcial intelligence-driven security
framework for Internet of Things-enhanced digital twin networks,”
Internet Things, vol. 31, May 2025, Art. no. 101564.
[44] W. Issa, N. Moustafa, B. Turnbull, and K.-K.-R. Choo, “DT-BFL: Digital
twins for blockchain-enabled federated learning in Internet of Things
networks,” Ad Hoc Netw., vol. 178, Nov. 2025, Art. no. 103934.
Ghofran Khalaf received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in computer science
from American University of Beirut (AUB) in 2023 and 2025, respectively.
Her research interests include wireless networking, digital twin technology,
and AI-driven optimization problems.
May Itani (Member, IEEE) received the B.E. degree
in electrical engineering and the M.E. degree in
computer and communications engineering from
American University of Beirut (AUB), Lebanon, in
1999 and 2004, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree
in computer science from Beirut Arab University in
2017.
From 1999 to 2011, she was a Teaching Assistant
with Beirut Arab University (BAU). From 2012
to 2019, she as a part-time Faculty Member with
Lebanese American University and AUB. In Septem-
ber 2020, she joined AUB as a Full Timer. She is currently an Associate
Professor with the Mathematics and Computer Science Department, BAU. Her
research interests include heuristic optimization using artiﬁcial intelligence,
future wireless networks, parallel processing, and cryptography.
Dr. Itani was a recipient of the Charli Korban Award for Outstanding Grad-
uate Student in the Maroun Semaan Faculty of Engineering and Architecture,
AUB.
Sanaa
Sharafeddine
(Senior
Member,
IEEE)
received the B.E. and M.E. degrees in computer
and communications engineering from American
University of Beirut and the Ph.D. degree in com-
munications engineering from Munich University of
Technology (TUM).
She is currently a Professor of electrical and
computer engineering with American University of
Beirut. Her Ph.D. research work was conducted in
collaboration with Siemens AG Research Laborato-
ries, Munich, and resulted in two granted patents.
Her research interests are in the areas of wireless networking, 6G systems,
multi-access edge computing, network planning, and optimization.
Prof. Sharafeddine received the Best Paper Award in the 2023 IEEE
Globecom. She was selected as the L’Oreal-Unesco International Rising
Talent in 2015 and the L’Oreal-Unesco Pan Arab Regional Fellowship
Award in 2013. She was a recipient of the Siemens Youth and Knowledge
Scholarship for Highly Distinguished Students and the Charli Korban Award
for Outstanding Graduate Student in the Maroun Semaan Faculty of Engi-
neering and Architecture, American University of Beirut. She serves on the
Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC) of ABET as a Commissioner
and Team Chair, and on the CSAB Board of Directors. She served on
the Editorial Board for IEEE NETWORKING LETTERS, IEEE Internet of
Things Magazine, Ad Hoc Networks (Elsevier), IEEE ACCESS, and IEEE
JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS—Series on Network
Softwarization and Enablers.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Institute of Technology Goa. Downloaded on August 18,2026 at 07:37:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
